1. what is python??
-> Python is an interpreted, object-oriented, high-level programming language with dynamic semantics.

2. type of modules?
-> Built In modules : jo lana nhi padta vo 
-> External modules : vo lane padte hai or run time download thy

NOTE : varibles name is case sentivie.
NOTE : \n to use newline problem print commend use.

3. Escape Sequence Characters:
-> print("this will \"execute\")
\" is use output "output"

4. print statement use::

print(object(s), sep = "other" , end = "other", file = "other")

5. list : is collectin of difference data type. lists of item.
6. tuple : is immutable . can't be change. collectin of item but its can't be change.
7. Dictionary : is collection of key-value pairs

8. Global varibles: Variables that are created outside of a function are known as global variables.

- Global variables can be used by everyone, both inside of functions and outside.

- To create a global variable inside a function, you can use the global keyword.

9. Typecasting : The conversion of one data type into other data type is known as typecasting.

types of Type Casting in Python:

Python Implicit Type Conversion :  Python converts the datatype into another datatype automatically. Users don’t have to involve in this process. like a = 7
print(type(a)) 

Python Explicit Type Conversion : Python needs user involvement to convert the variable data type into the required data type. 

methods like :: int(), str(), float() ,ord(), hex(),

len : used for length any para.

10 . Python string methods is a collection of in-built Python functions that operates on lists.

Note: All string methods returns new values. They do not change the original string.

11. find method - is find character and not find character then return -1.

12. Index method - is also use find method like that but not character in string then error show.

13. isalpha : If any other characters or punctuations or numbers(0-9) are present, then it returns False.

14. isalnum : If any other characters or punctuations are present, then it returns False.

NOTE : for loop meh "space" ko indentation